Condition,"Comment/
Mutation Type",Comment
CAB=3,,This virus is predicted to have low-level reduced susceptibility to CAB. The use of the combination of CAB/RPV should be considered to be relatively contraindicated.
DTG=3,,"There is evidence for low-level DTG resistance. If DTG is used, it should be administered twice daily."
CAB=4,,This virus is predicted to have intermediate-level reduced susceptibility to CAB. The use of the combination of CAB/RPV should be considered to be contraindicated.
DTG=4,,"There is evidence for intermediate DTG resistance. If DTG is used, it should be administered twice daily."
DTG=5,,"There is evidence for high-level DTG resistance. If DTG is used, it should be administered twice daily."
49G,Accessory,A49G is a rare nonpolymorphic accessory INSTI-selected mutation with uncertain effects on INSTI susceptibility.
50I,Other,"M50I is a highly polymorphic mutation, which has a prevalence of 3% to 34% in INSTI-naïve persons depending on subtype. It has been selected in vitro by DTG and BIC in combination with R263K. It also appears to frequently occur in combination with R263K in patients receiving DTG and BIC. It is uncertain whether it contributes to reduced DTG and CAB susceptibility in combination with R263K."
51Y,Accessory,"H51Y is an uncommon nonpolymorphic accessory mutation selected in vitro by EVG, DTG, and CAB. Alone, it has minimal if any effect on INSTI susceptibility."
66AI,Major,"T66A/I are non-polymorphic mutations selected in persons receiving EVG, RAL, and DTG usually in combination with other INSTI-resistance mutations. They cause moderate reductions in EVG susceptibility but do not appear to reduce susceptibility to other INSTIs."
66K,Major,"T66K is an uncommon non-polymorphic INSTI-selected mutation. It is associated with high-level EVG resistance, intermediate/high-level RAL resistance, and low-level DTG and CAB resistance. Its effect on BIC is not known."
74F,Accessory,L74F is an extremely rare nonpolymorphic mutation which contributes to reduced INSTI susceptibility when it occurs with other INSTI-resistance mutations.
74I,Other,L74I is a highly polymorphic mutation with a prevalence of 3% to 30% depending on subtype. It is the consensus amino acid in subtype A viruses belonging to the A6 clade. It does not appear to be selected by any of the INSTIs or to reduce their susceptibility.
74M,Accessory,"L74M is a common polymorphic INSTI-resistance mutation. It has a prevalence between 1% and 5% among INSTI-naïve persons depending on subtype. It appears to be selected by each of the INSTIs. Alone it does not reduce INSTI susceptibility. However, in combination with other INSTI-resistance mutations, it contributes reduced susceptibility to each of the INSTIs."
75A,Accessory,"V75A is a nonpolymorphic mutation selected in vitro by CAB. Based on limited data, it appears to contribute to reduced susceptibility to other INSTIs in combination with Q148 mutations or G118R."
92GV,Major,E92G/V are rare nonpolymorphic mutations that reduce EVG susceptibility >=10-fold but do not appear to reduce susceptibility to other INSTIs.
92Q,Major,"E92Q is a common non-polymorphic mutation selected in persons receiving RAL and EVG. It reduces RAL susceptibility 5 to 10-fold and EVG susceptibility ~30-fold. It does not reduce susceptibility to BIC, CAB, and DTG."
95K,Accessory,"Q95K is a non-polymorphic INSTI-selected mutation. Alone, it has little if any effect on INSTI susceptibility."
97A,Accessory,"T97A is a polymorphic INSTI-selected mutation that, depending on subtype, occurs in 1% to 5% of viruses from untreated persons. Alone, it has minimal effects on INSTI susceptibility but in combination with other major resistance mutations, it synergistically reduces susceptibility to each of the INSTIs."
118R,Major,"G118R is a nonpolymorphic mutation reported in a significant proportion of persons with VF and emergent HIVDR in persons receiving a DTG-containing regimen. It has occasionally been reported in persons receiving other INSTIs. It is associated with greater than 10-fold reduced susceptibility to DTG, 5-10-fold reduced susceptibility to RAL, EVG, and CAB, and about 3 fold reduced susceptibility to BIC. However, the data for BIC are based on the results of a single site-directed mutant."
119R,Other,"S119R is a polymorphic mutation that is weakly selected by INSTIs usually in combination with several major INSTI-associated DRMs. Alone, it has little, if any effect, on INSTI susceptibility."
121C,Major,"F121C is an extremely rare mutation. Preliminary data suggests it may confers high level phenotypic resistance to RAL, EVG, and possibly CAB."
121Y,Major,"F121Y is a rare nonpolymorphic mutation selected primarily by RAL. It is associated with >10-fold reduced susceptibility to RAL but has minimal if any effect on susceptibility to CAB, DTG, and BIC."
122N,Accessory,"T122N is a nonpolymorphic mutation selected in vitro by CAB. Based on limited data, it possibly contributes reduced susceptibility to each of the INSTIs in combination with other DRMs."
128T,Accessory,"A128T is a relatively nonpolymorphic possible INSTI-selected mutation, which does not appear to reduce INSTI susceptibility."
138D,Other,E138D is a polymorphism that occurs in 1% to 2% of viruses from INSTI-naïve patients. It does not appear to be selected by INSTIs or to reduce INSTI susceptibility.
138KAT,Major,"E138K/A/T are common nonpolymorphic accessory resistance mutations selected in patients receiving RAL, EVG, CAB, and DTG. Alone they do not reduce INSTI susceptibility. However, they contribute to reduced susceptibility in combination with other mutations particularly those at position 148."
140R,Major,G140R is a nonpolymorphic mutation reported in n macaques receiving CAB pre-exposure prophylaxis and in a person receiving simplification therapy with RPV/CAB. It can reduce CAB susceptibility up to 7-fold.
140SAC,Major,"G140S/A/C are non-polymorphic mutations that usually occur with Q148 mutations. Alone, they have minimal effects on INSTI susceptibility. However, in combination with Q148 mutations they are associated with high-level resistance to RAL and EVG and intermediate reductions in DTG, BIC, and CAB susceptibility."
143CRH,Major,"Y143C/R/H are non-polymorphic mutations associated with high-level RAL resistance. Alone, they have minimal effects on EVG susceptibility. However, they are associated with intermediate reductions in EVG susceptibility when they occur in combination with one or more accessory INSTI-resistance mutations. Y143 mutations do not reduce susceptibility to DTG, BIC, or CAB."
143KGSA,Major,"Y143K/G/S/A are rare mutations that cause intermediate reductions in RAL susceptibility. When they occur in combination with other accessory mutations, they may also cause low-level reductions in EVG susceptibility."
145S,Major,P145S is a rare non-polymorphic mutation selected in vitro by EVG and rarely in patients receiving EVG. It causes high-level resistance to EVG but not to any other INSTI.
146PRL,Major,"Q146P/R/L are rare mutations that have been selected in vitro by EVG, DTG, BIC, and CAB. Q146P/L have been associated with 5-15-fold reduced EVG susceptibility and minimally reduced susceptibility to CAB."
147G,Major,"S147G is a nonpolymorphic mutation selected in patients receiving RAL, EVG, and DTG. Alone it reduces EVG susceptibility about 5-fold and appears to contribute reduced susceptibility to the remaining INSTIs."
148HKR,Major,"Q148H/K/R are nonpolymorphic mutations reported in persons receiving RAL, EVG, CAB, and DTG. They nearly always occur in combination with G140A/S or E138K. In this setting they are associated with high-level resistance to RAL, EVG, and CAB, and low-to-intermediate reductions in DTG and BIC susceptibility."
148N,Major,Q148N is a very rare INSTI-selected mutation that causes ~3-fold reduced EVG susceptibility and may represent a reversion from Q148H or Q148K.
149A,Accessory,"G149A is an accessory nonpolymorphic mutation that has been reported primarily in combination with Q148 mutations. It appears to have no effect by itself but in combination with mutations at positions 140 and 148, it leads to contributes reduced susceptibility to DTG, CAB, and BIC."
151A,Accessory,V151A is an extremely rare mutation associated with minimally reduced susceptibility to RAL and EVG.
151I,Other,"V151I is an accessory INSTI selected mutation that occurs in 1% to 3% of viruses from ART-naïve persons depending on subtype. Alone, it appears to have little or no effect on INSTI susceptibility."
151L,Major,V151L is an extremely rare mutation that reduces susceptibility to RAL and EVG by 15 to 20-fold and to CAB and DTG by about 3-fold.
153YFA,Accessory,"S153Y/F are very rare mutations selected in vitro by EVG, DTG, BIC, and CAB. Alone they reduce EVG susceptibility about 5-fold and DTG, CAB, and BIC susceptibility about 2-fold. S153A is a rare mutation that alone does not appear to reduce INSTI susceptibility."
155H,Major,"N155H is a common nonpolymorphic INSTI-resistance mutations. It has been reported in a high proportion of persons developing VF and HIVDR while receiving RAL, EVG, DTG, and CAB. Alone, it reduces RAL and EVG susceptibility about 10 and 30-fold, respectively. It has minimal effect on susceptibility to DTG, BIC, and CAB. However, it likely significantly reduces the genetic barrier to resistance of CAB."
155ST,Major,"N155S/T are extremely rare nonpolymorphic mutations that reduce RAL and EVG susceptibility about 5-fold and greater than 30-fold respectively but have little effect on CAB, DTG, and BIC."
157Q,Accessory,"E157Q is a polymorphic mutation selected in persons receiving RAL, EVG, and possibly the second generation INSTIs. Alone, it appears to have little effect on INSTI susceptibility. It is uncertain whether it contributes to reduced susceptibility in combination with R263K."
163RK,Accessory,G163R/K are nonpolymorphic in all subtypes except subtype F. They are accessory resistance mutations as they usually occur in combination with other INSTI-resistance mutations particularly N155H.
230N,Other,S230N is a polymorphism that is not associated with reduced INSTI susceptibility.
230R,Accessory,"S230R is a nonpolymorphic INSTI-selected mutation that primarily occurs in combination with other INSTI-resistance mutations. By itself, it appears to have minimal effect on susceptibility to available INSTIs."
232N,Accessory,"D232N is a common nonpolymorphic accessory mutation selected in persons receiving RAL and EVG. Alone, it has little effect on INSTI susceptibility."
263K,Major,"R263K is a nonpolymorphic mutation selected in vitro by EVG, DTG, BIC, and CAB. It occurs in a high proportion of persons who develop VF and emergent HIVDR while receiving DTG. Alone, it reduces DTG, BIC, and CAB susceptibility about 2-fold and EVG susceptibility about 5-fold. It remains uncertain whether this mutation is a contraindication to continued treatment with DTG or BIC."