Condition,"Comment/
Mutation Type",Comment
DRV/r=5 AND TPV/r=1,,There is high-level DRV resistance and TPV susceptibility. Phenotypic testing and/or expert consultation may be useful. To see the precise TPV report re-run the program after adding TPV to the results being displayed.
DRV/r=5 AND TPV/r=2,,There is high-level DRV resistance and potential low-level TPV resistance. Phenotypic testing and/or expert consultation may be useful. To see the precise TPV report re-run the program after adding TPV to the results being displayed.
DRV/r=5 AND TPV/r=3,,There is high-level DRV resistance and low-level TPV resistance. Phenotypic testing and/or expert consultation may be useful. To see the precise TPV report re-run the program after adding TPV to the results being displayed.
DRV/r=3,,There is evidence for low-level DRV resistance. If DRV is administered it should be used twice daily.
DRV/r=5 AND TPV/r=4,,There is high-level DRV resistance and intermediate TPV resistance. Phenotypic testing and/or expert consultation may be useful. To see the precise TPV report re-run the program after adding TPV to the results being displayed.
DRV/r=4,,There is evidence for intermediate DRV resistance. If DRV is administered it should be used twice daily.
DRV/r=5,,There is evidence for high-level DRV resistance. If DRV is administered it should be used twice daily.
10F,Accessory,"L10F is a common non-polymorphic, PI-selected accessory mutation associated with reduced in vitro susceptibility to ATV, LPV, and DRV."
10IV,Other,"L10I/V are polymorphic, PI-selected accessory mutations that increase the replication of viruses with other PI-resistance mutations."
10RY,Other,"L10R/Y are rare, non-polymorphic PI-selected mutations. Their effects on PI susceptibility have not been well studied."
11IL,Other,V11I/L are relatively non-polymorphic accessory mutation selected in persons receiving DRV. V11L is a nonpolymorphic PI-selected mutation associated with reduced in vitro DRV susceptibility when it occurs in combination with other PI-resistance mutations.
20I,Other,"K20I is the consensus amino acid in subtype G and CRF02_AG. In subtypes B and C, K20I is a PI-selected mutation of uncertain effects on currently used PIs."
20MV,Other,K20M/V are uncommonrelatively non-polymorphic PI-selected mutations that have not been well studied.
20R,Other,K20R is a highly polymorphic PI-selected accessory mutation that increases replication fitness in viruses with PI-resistance mutations.
20T,Accessory,K20T is a non-polymorphic accessory PI-selected mutation associated with reduced susceptibility to ATV and LPV.
23I,Accessory,L23I is an uncommon non-polymorphic mutation selected primarily by NFV. It appears to have minimal if any effects on the susceptibility to other PIs.
24FM,Accessory,L24I is a non-polymorphic mutation selected by IDV and LPV. It contributes reduced susceptibility to ATV and LPV. L24F/M are uncommon non-polymorphic PI-selected mutations. L24F has a susceptibility profile similar to L24I.
24I,Accessory,L24I is a non-polymorphic mutation selected by IDV and LPV. It contributes reduced susceptibility to ATV and LPV.
30N,Major,D30N is a non-polymorphic mutation NFV-selected mutation that causes high-level resistance to NFV but not to other PIs.
32I,Major,"V32I is a non-polymorphic mutation selected by LPV, ATV, and DRV which is associated with reduced susceptibility to each of these PIs."
33i OR 34i OR 35i OR 36i OR 37i OR 38i OR 39i OR 40i OR 41i,Other,Insertions between positions 33 and 41 do not appear to be selected by PIs or to reduce PI susceptibility.
33F,Accessory,"L33F is a relatively non-polymorphic accessory mutation selected by each of the PIs. In combination with other PI-resistance mutations, it is associated with reduced susceptibility to LPV, ATV, and DRV."
33IV,Other,L33I/V are minimally polymorphic mutations that do not appear to be selected by PIs or to reduce their susceptibility.
43T,Accessory,K43T is a nonpolymorphic accessory mutation selected by ATV and LPV. Its phenotypic effect on currently used PIs is uncertain.
46IL,Major,"M46I/L are relatively non-polymorphic PI-selected mutations. In combination with other PI-resistance mutations, they are associated with reduced susceptibility to each of the PIs except DRV."
46V,Accessory,"M46I/L are relatively non-polymorphic PI-selected mutations. In combination with other PI-resistance mutations, they are associated with reduced susceptibility to each of the PIs except DRV. M46V is a rare non-polymorphic PI-selected mutation that has not been well studied."
47A,Major,I47A is a non-polymorphic mutation selected by LPV. It usually occurs in combination with V32I and in this context it confers high-level resistance to LPV and low-level resistance to DRV.
47V,Major,I47V is a non-polymorphic PI-selected mutation associated with reduced susceptibility to LPV and DRV.
48ASTQL,Major,G48V is a nonpolymorphic mutation selected by SQV and less often by IDV and LPV. It confers intermediate resistance to ATV but has little if any effect on LPV susceptibility. G48M is an uncommon 2-base-pair nonpolymorphic substrate-cleft mutation nearly always selected in viruses with multiple PI-resistance mutations. It has a resistance profile similar to G48V. G48A/S/T/Q/L are extremely rare nonpolymorphic PI-selected mutations nearly always selected in viruses with multiple PI-resistance mutations.
48M,Major,G48V is a nonpolymorphic mutation selected by SQV and less often by IDV and LPV. It confers intermediate resistance to ATV but has little if any effect on LPV susceptibility. G48M is an uncommon 2-base-pair nonpolymorphic substrate-cleft mutation nearly always selected in viruses with multiple PI-resistance mutations. It has a resistance profile similar to G48V.
48V,Major,G48V is a nonpolymorphic mutation selected by SQV and less often by IDV and LPV. It confers intermediate resistance to ATV but has little if any effect on LPV susceptibility.
50L,Major,I50L is a non-polymorphic mutation selected by ATV. It causes high-level resistance to ATV and increases susceptibility to LPV and DRV.
50V,Major,"I50V is a nonpolymorphic mutation selected by FPV, LPV and DRV. It reduces susceptibility to LPV and DRV."
53LY,Accessory,"F53L is a nonpolymorphic accessory mutation selected primarily by SQV, IDV, ATV and LPV. In combination with other mutations, It is associated with reduced susceptibility to ATV and possibly LPV. F53Y is an uncommon nonpolymorphic accessory PI-selected mutation that has not been well studied."
54ATS,Major,I54A/T/S are non-polymorphic PI-selected mutations that occur almost exclusively in viruses with multiple PI-resistance mutations. I54A/T/S are associated with reduced susceptibility to each of the PIs except DRV.
54LM,Major,"I54M/L are non-polymorphic mutations selected primarily by FPV and DRV. I54M/L reduce susceptibility to LPV, ATV, and DRV."
54V,Major,I54V is a non-polymorphic PI-selected mutation that contributes reduced susceptibility to each of the PIs except DRV.
58E,Accessory,"Q58E is a minimally polymorphic accessory mutation selected by each of the PIs except DRV. In combination with other PI-resistance mutations, it may contribute to low-level ATV resistance."
71IL,Other,"A71I/L are non-polymorphic, PI-selected accessory mutations that appear to increase the replication of viruses with other PI-resistance mutations."
71TV,Other,"A71V/T are polymorphic, PI-selected accessory mutations that increase the replication of viruses with other PI-resistance mutations."
73STCA,Accessory,G73S/T/C/A are common non-polymorphic accessory mutations selected primarily by most PIs. They are associated with minimally reduced susceptibility to each of the PIs.
74P,Accessory,"T74P is a nonpolymorphic PI-selected accessory mutation that occurs primarily in viruses from persons who have received multiple PIs. In combination with other mutations, It is associated with reduced susceptibility to ATV and DRV."
74S,Other,T74S is a PI-selected accessory mutation that is polymorphic in most non-B subtypes.
76V,Major,"L76V is a non-polymorphic mutation selected by IDV, LPV and DRV and reduces susceptibility to LPV and DRV."
82A,Major,V82A is a non-polymorphic mutation selected primarily by IDV and LPV. It is associated with reduced susceptibility to LPV and to a lesser extent ATV. It increases DRV susceptibility.
82C,Major,V82C is an uncommon nonpolymorphic 2-base-pair PI-selected mutation that occurs in viruses with multiple PI-resistance mutations. Its effect on PI susceptibility has not been well studied.
82F,Major,V82F is a nonpolymorphic mutation selected primarily by IDV and LPV. It reduces LPV and DRV susceptibility.
82I,Other,V82I is a highly polymorphic mutation that is not selected by PIs. It is the consensus amino acid in subtype G viruses.
82L,Major,V82L is a rare nonpolymorphic mutation selected primarily by TPV. Its effect on other PIs is not well characterized.
82M,Major,V82M is an uncommon nonpolymorphic PI-selected mutation. Its effect on currently used PIs is not well defined.
82TS,Major,"V82T/S are nonpolymorphic mutations selected primarily by IDV and LPV. They are associated with reduced susceptibility to LPV and ATV, and increased susceptibility to DRV."
83D,Accessory,N83D is a nonpolymorphic PI-selected accessory mutation which possibly contributes to reduced ATV susceptibility in combination with other PI-resistance mutations.
84AC,Major,I84A/C are extremely rare non-polymorphic mutations selected primarily by SQV. I84A is associated with markedly reduced susceptibility to each of the PIs. I84C has a less-marked effect on PI susceptibility compared with I84A.
84V,Major,"I84V is a nonpolymorphic substrate-cleft mutation selected by each of the PIs. I84V reduces susceptibility to LPV, ATV, and DRV."
85V,Other,"I85V is a non-polymorphic PI-selected mutation. It has minimal, if any, effects on PI susceptibility."
88D,Accessory,"N88D is a nonpolymorphic mutation selected by NFV, usually in combination with D30N. It is associated with potential low-level cross-resistance to ATV."
88S,Major,"N88S is a non-polymorphic mutation usually selected by NFV, ATV, and IDV. It confers high-level resistance to ATV and increases susceptibility to DRV."
88TG,Major,N88G/T are extremely rare non-polymorphic PI-selected mutations that reduce susceptibility to ATV.
89VT,Accessory,L89V is a nonpolymorphic accessory mutation weakly selected by each of the PIs. It appears to be minimally associated with reduced PI susceptibility. L89T is an uncommon non-polymorphic PI-selected mutation selected primarily by ATV.
90M,Major,L90M is a non-polymorphic PI-selected mutation that reduces susceptibility to ATV and to a lesser extent LPV.